Improving Codespaces (#2600)
akaszynski/pyansys: .devcontainer/develop_on_containers.rst

.. _develop_on_remote_containers:

Develop on a remote container
=============================

> .. note:: This approach requires to have a docker image with MAPDL installed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. note:: This approach requires you have a Docker image with MAPDL installed.
```

   The one listed in the 
   `repository development container configuration files <pymapdl_devcontainer_configuration_>`_ 
   is not for public usage due to licensing issues.
   However, you are invited to `create your own docker image <ref_make_container_>`
   and use this file as template for setting your own local development container.

> To use a `remote container <vscode_devcontainers_containers_>`_, you must install:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use a `remote container <vscode_devcontainers_containers_>`_, you must install this software:
```

> * `VS Code <vscode_>`_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `Visual Studio Code <vscode_>`_
```
Now I'm more confident that all the occurrences of Visual Code should be Visual Studio Code. We shouldn't abbreviate product names.

* `Docker software <docker_main_>`_ or equivalent.

>   It is recommended to use Windows Subsystem Linux (WSL) backend to run Linux
>   docker containers.
>   See `Developing inside a Container Getting started <vscode_devcontainers_containers_getting_started_>`_
>   for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  To run Linxu Docker containers, you should use the Windows Subsystem Linux (WSL) backend. For more
  information, see `Developing inside a Container Getting started vscode_devcontainers_containers_getting_started_>`_.
```

Author: the following element is part of the current list. ;)

* `Remove Development VS Code extension pack <vscode_devcontainers_remote_extension_>`_

As mentioned before, you must have your own Docker image with MAPDL installed

> locally available or hosted in an online registry, i.e. GitHub `ghcr.io <ghcr_>`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
locally available or hosted in an online registry, such as GitHub `ghcr.io <ghcr_>`_.
```

For the purpose of this document, assume your image is hosted at
``ghcr.io/myaccount/mapdlimage:mytag``.

> You must then modify the file
> `docker-compose.yml <pymapdl_build_docker_compose_>`_ with your custom image:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must then modify the
`docker-compose.yml <pymapdl_build_docker_compose_>`_ file with your custom image:
```

.. code-block:: yaml
   :emphasize-lines: 4

   ports:
      - '50052:50052'
      - '50055:50055'
   image: 'ghcr.io/myaccount/mapdlimage:mytag'
   user: "0:0"

> .. warning:: Also you might need to change some environment variables or Docker
>    options to adjust to your image configuration.
>    For example you might need to change the :envvar:`AWP_ROOT222` if you MAPDL
>    container does not have the installation in the default directory.
>    Be careful to not commit those changes in your PRs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. warning:: You might also need to change some environment variables or Docker
   options to adjust to your image configuration.
   For example, you might need to change the :envvar:`AWP_ROOT222` environment
   variable if your MAPDL container does not have the installation in the default directory.
   Be careful that you do not commit those changes in your PRs.
```

You can now open the current folder (or PyMAPDL repository) using

> :kbd:`ctr/cmd` + :kbd:`shift` + :kbd:`p` to open the Visual Code `Command palette`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:kbd:`ctr/cmd` + :kbd:`shift` + :kbd:`p` to open the Visual Studio Code **Command palette**.
```

> Then select ``Dev Containers: Open Folder in Container``.
> You will be prompted to select one of the multiple devcontainer configurations,
> select `PyMAPDL-DevContainer (Local)`.
> Because the configuration is available in :file:`.devcontainer/devcontainer-local` directory,
> VS Code will automatically launch the MAPDL container with the desired configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then select **Dev Containers: Open Folder in Container**.
When you are prompted to select one of the multiple devcontainer configurations,
select **PyMAPDL-DevContainer (Local)**.
Because the configuration is available in the :file:`.devcontainer/devcontainer-local` directory,
V Studio Code automatically launches the MAPDL container with the desired configuration.
```

> .. note:: First time you launch the devcontainer it might take a long time to get ready,
>    since it needs to pull the container image from the registry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. note:: The first time that you launch the devcontainer, it might take a long time before it is ready,
   This is because the container image must be pulled from the registry.
```

You can now work normally, but you will be, in fact, working from
inside the container.

> Because Visual Code mount the local directory into the docker container,
> you don't lose your changes if accidentally delete your container.
> However, this mounting process might have a significant impact on
> the container performance, especially noticeable if you are using MacOS.
> You can avoid that by cloning the repository inside the container.
> Visit `Quick start: Open a Git repository or GitHub PR in an isolated container volume <vscode_open_a_repository_in_container_>`_
> for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because Visual Studio Code mount the local directory into the Docker container,
you don't lose your changes if you accidentally delete your container.
However, this mounting process might have a significant impact on
the container performance, especially noticeable if you are using MacOS.
You can avoid this by cloning the repository inside the container.
For more information, see `Quick start: Open a Git repository or GitHub PR in an isolated container volume <vscode_open_a_repository_in_container_>`_.
```
